.TH "RLX-BULK" "1" "September 2014" "rlx-bulk 0.1.392" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
rlx-bulk -- Bulk document tasks.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
rlx bulk <command> [\-l] [\-l|\-\-long] [\-\-strict] [\-\-lenient]
.br
    [\-\-flat|\-\-no\-flat] [\-\-auto\-id|\-\-no\-auto\-id] <args> 
.br
rlx bulk ls <args> <id...> <dir> 
.br
rlx bulk push <args> <dir> 
.br
rlx bulk pull <args> <id...> <dir> 
.br
rlx bulk revs <args> <id...> 
.br
rlx bulk rm <args> <id...>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Commands for operating on multiple documents.
.PP
You may \fBpush\fR an arbitrary directory of json documents as a bulk database operation but first it is recommended you inspect the output of the \fBls\fR command to verify the document collation is as desired.
.PP
Use the \fB\-g | \-\-glob\fR option to filter bulk operations.
.PP
If no subcommand is specified an error is reported.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBls\fR: List documents.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBpush\fR: Push a directory of documents.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBpull\fR: Pull documents to a directory.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBrevs\fR: Fetch multiple document revisions.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBrm\fR: Delete multiple documents.
.EL
.SH "OPTIONS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-l, \-\-long\fR: Long listing (include documents).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-strict\fR: Abort on error.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-lenient\fR: Skip errors in a bulk response.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-[no]\-flat\fR: Use flat collation (no attachments).
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fB\-\-[no]\-auto\-id\fR: Use automatic id generation.
.EL
.SH "LAYOUT"
.PP
The file system layout for a \fIdocs\fR directory looks like:

.SP
  docs
.br
  ├── doc\-attachments
.br
  │   ├── attachment.txt
.br
  │   ├── deep
.br
  │   │   └── alt\-attachment.txt
.br
  │   └── index.json
.br
  ├── doc1.json
.br
  └── doc2.json
.PP
The document collation will include top\-level \fB.json\fR and \fB.js\fR files in the list of documents to include, these documents cannot have attachments, for example: \fBdoc1.json\fR and \fBdoc2.json\fR.
.PP
If a top\-level directory exists and the directory contains a known index file (\fBindex.json\fR or \fBindex.js\fR) then the index file is used as the document and all other files in the directory are treated as attachments. Nested directories will be included as attachments with a path, for example: \fBdeep/alt\-attachment.txt\fR is the attachment name for the document with an id of \fBdoc\-attachments\fR.
.PP
The result of using \fB${cmd_docs_long} ls\fR on this layout is:

.SP
  {
.br
    "doc\-attachments": {
.br
      "file": "/path/docs/doc\-attachments/index.json",
.br
      "name": "index.json",
.br
      "path": "doc\-attachments/index.json",
.br
      "attachments": [
.br
        {
.br
          "file": "/path/docs/doc\-attachments/attachment.txt",
.br
          "name": "attachment.txt",
.br
          "path": "doc\-attachments/attachment.txt"
.br
        },
.br
        {
.br
          "file": "/path/docs/doc\-attachments/deep/alt\-attachment.txt",
.br
          "name": "alt\-attachment.txt",
.br
          "path": "doc\-attachments/deep/alt\-attachment.txt"
.br
        }
.br
      ]
.br
    },
.br
    "doc1.json": {
.br
      "file": "/path/docs/doc1.json",
.br
      "name": "doc1.json",
.br
      "path": "doc1.json"
.br
    },
.br
    "doc2.json": {
.br
      "file": "/path/docs/doc2.json",
.br
      "name": "doc2.json",
.br
      "path": "doc2.json"
.br
    }
.br
  }
.PP
Because the files have not been loaded from disc the document identifers are not available add the \fB\-l\fR flag to view collated documents and generated identifiers.
.SH "DOCUMENT LIST"
.PP
Listing local documents is performed by invoking \fBls\fR with a single argument (\fB<dir>\fR), to list remote documents specify multiple document identifiers (\fB<id...>\fR).
.SH "DOCUMENT IDENTIFIERS"
.PP
If a document explicity defines an \fB_id\fR property than it is always used otherwise a document id will automatically be generated based on the name of the file (or directory).
.PP
When generating identifiers for documents with a known file extension, the extension is removed, for documents with attachments (directories) the name of the directory is used.
.PP
You may disable the automatic id injection with \fB\-\-no\-auto\-id\fR or setting the rc configuration property \fBdocs.id.auto\fR to \fBfalse\fR or the corresponding environment variable:

.SP
  rlx_docs_id_auto=false \e
.br
    rlx ${cmd_docs_long} ls \-l <dir>
.PP
Note that the identifiers are generated and assigned to the \fBid\fR field of the file object but they are not assigned to the document's \fB_id\fR property.
.PP
Use this setting if you would like the server to generate an id for those documents that do not have an explicit \fB_id\fR.
.SH "DOCUMENT COLLATION"
.PP
The default collation matches the \fBLAYOUT\fR but you may change this behaviour if you are not using attachments and wish to operate on all the documents in a directory with \fB\-\-flat\fR or by setting the rc configuration property \fBdocs.flat\fR to \fBtrue\fR:

.SP
  rlx_docs_flat=true \e
.br
    rlx ${cmd_docs_long} ls \-l <dir>
.PP
Flat collation includes all files of known file extensions recursively and generates an identifier using the path relative to \fB<dir>\fR, no files found are treated as attachments.
.PP
If the \fB\-g | \-\-glob\fR option is used the patterns are matched after file collation and the relative file path must match one of the glob patterns to be included.
.SH "BULK DELETION"
.PP
Use the \fBrm\fR command to remove multiple documents. This removal is forceful in that it fetches the latest revisions for the specified documents before attempting the bulk deletion.
.PP
Specify the \fB\-\-strict\fR option and if any error occurs while fetching document revisions no bulk deletion is performed, an array of errors is printed.
.SH "BULK REVISIONS"
.PP
Use the \fBrevs\fR command to fetch revisions for multiple document identifiers:

  rlx ${cmd_docs_long} revs \-s {server} \-d {db} <id...>
.PP
By default the listing is a map of identifiers to revisions:

.SP
  {
.br
    "8faf0d3bae0a0520e1a459ff9c003ddd": "1\-967a00dff5e02add41819138abb3284d"
.br
  }
.PP
Use the \fB\-l | \-\-long\fR option for an array of objects:

.SP
  [
.br
    {
.br
      "id": "8faf0d3bae0a0520e1a459ff9c003ddd",
.br
      "rev": "1\-967a00dff5e02add41819138abb3284d"
.br
    }
.br
  ]
.PP
To view the raw result of the query use \fB\-\-raw\fR:

.SP
  {
.br
    "total_rows": 4,
.br
    "offset": 0,
.br
    "rows": [
.br
      {
.br
        "id": "15136c47b4865ea2222196de47004f59",
.br
        "key": "15136c47b4865ea2222196de47004f59",
.br
        "value": {
.br
          "rev": "1\-967a00dff5e02add41819138abb3284d"
.br
        }
.br
      }
.br
    ]
.br
  }
.PP
Errors in the response are included in the output by default:

.SP
  {
.br
    "15136c47b4865ea2222196de47004f59": "1\-967a00dff5e02add41819138abb3284d",
.br
    "unknown\-document": {
.br
      "error": "not_found"
.br
    }
.br
  }
.PP
To suppress inclusion of errors use the \fB\-\-lenient\fR option.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/freeformsystems/rlx/issues.
