.TH "RLX-HTTP" "1" "January 2016" "rlx-http 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH "NAME"
rlx-http -- Low-level HTTP requests.
.SH "USAGE"

.SP
rlx http <command> <args>
.br
rlx tt <command> <args> 
.br
rlx tt get <args> <url> 
.br
rlx tt put <args> <url> 
.br
rlx tt post <args> <url> 
.br
rlx tt delete <args> <url> 
.br
rlx tt head <args> <url> 
.br
rlx tt copy <args> <url>
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
Perform HTTP requests using any of the available methods GET, PUT, POST, DELETE, HEAD and COPY.
.PP
All subcommands require an absolute \fB<url>\fR using either the \fBhttp\fR or \fBhttps\fR scheme. You may reference an alias for \fB<url>\fR but if the alias does not have a valid \fBserver\fR field it is not possible to form an absolute URL, see rlx\-alias(1).
.PP
The \fB\-\-query\fR and \fB\-\-header\fR options are respected and there are no restrictions on the headers that may be sent.
.PP
The options \fB\-\-server\fR, \fB\-\-database\fR, \fB\-\-id\fR and \fB\-\-rev\fR have no effect.
.PP
For PUT and POST requests any document specified using the rules that apply to stdin, \fB\-\-file\fR and \fB\-\-json\fR is sent as the body for the request. This means that at the moment only JSON is supported, in the future this will be addressed.
.SH "COMMANDS"
.BL
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBget\fR: Send a GET request.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBput\fR: Send a PUT request.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBpost\fR: Send a POST request.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBdelete, del\fR: Send a DELETE request.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBhead\fR: Send a HEAD request.
.IP "\[ci]" 4
\fBcopy\fR: Send a COPY request.
.EL
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to https://github.com/tmpfs/rlx/issues.
